# 8/25 Lecture

## Questions:

- what is the difference between a "pure" function and a mathematical function?
- 

## Miscellaneous notes I've written down:

- Important terms whose meaning isn't really clear: expression, statement, type, function, value
    - expressions evaluate to values
    - values have types
        - we might think of type as the name of the set to which the value belongs, and the set contains all possible values a thing of that type could be. so in Python, `type(-38)` returns `int`, so `-38` has type `int`
    - statements are instructions to the computer to do something, so they don't have a value
        - statements might contain expressions, though
        - statements might be more associated with imperative-style programming
    - "function" seems like it can be interpreted in at least two ways:
        - in computer programming, it may just be a a part of a program (loosely speaking, a sequence of steps) that is packaged as a unit and abstracted away, so it's easier to use in different places.
        - in math, a function $f \colon X \to Y$ is roughly speaking a rule that associates every $x \in X$ to exactly one $y \in Y$. But in programming, a "function" `f` may not behave like a mathematical function, because it may either depend on (or do things to) the "outside world". So for example, `f(2)` may evaluate to different values if it depends on something other than its argument that can change.
            - if we decided that we wanted to avoid these problems, and make our program functions more like mathematical functions, then we enter the world of "functional programming". This is related to "$\lambda$-calculus" and is a somewhat more theoretical style of programming.
            - part of the appeal of functional programming is that it supposedly makes it easier to ensure that your program is "correct", roughly meaning that it does what you want it to do (here we assume that you have the right idea of what your program should do...). This is relevant in safety-critical applications, or any time correctness is really important, and/or when it's really hard to reason your way through what your program is doing, e.g. in parallel or concurrent settings.
            - I think that functional programming may emphasize expressions more than statements, because statements are associated with state (?), and functionla programing de-emphasizes state.
            - The other major flavor of programming is imperative programming, which embraces statements and state. this seems to me like a more machine-centric style of programming than functional programming.
- a very tentative characterization of computer science as consisting of two parts:
    - an "abstract" part that is about how to compute things or solve problems, that can be discussed on paper or on a whiteboard, e.g. a method for sorting a list of numbers, and analysis of that method
    - specific implementations or analysis that is in the context of a given computing device, e.g. an x86-64 processor.
    - obviously these two parts can interact.
- the book (Composing Programs) emphasizes thinking in terms of the appropriate abstraction, but isn't that the case in math too?
- one tentative distinction between math and computer science is that math is often concerned with solving a problem or computing something, while computer science is often concerned not only with a solution, but the nature of the solution, e.g. what kind of steps does the solution (or computation) involve? How much time or space does the solution/computation take? How do those things change as the problem gets bigger?
    - math is more about "here is a method for X, or a result Y, and a proof that it's correct, and that's that." E.g. we prove that the symmetric group is generated by the transpositions, so we know that we can sort any list of numbers via transpositions, and we don't investigate any further.
    - CS on the other hand is more about the solution/method: give me a specific set of steps to follow to sort the list, prove it's correct, and analyze the characteristics of the set of steps.
    

## Composing Programs 1.1



## Composing Programs 1.2

- I think the key idea here is that `operator(operand1, operand2)` is an expression that is evaluated as follows. First, evaluate the operator (it evaluates to some function). Next, evaluate the operands, each of which evaluates to some value. Then, evaluate the operator applied to the operands, which is the value of the expression.

## Composing Programs 1.3

- I need to understand environments and frames. I *think* the idea is that an environment is a set of frames corresponding to a specific time in the evaluation of a program. A frame is a table that contains names (variables and functions), and the things they refer to (values or functions). When a user-defined function is called, I *think* that the environment is updated to include a frame specific to that call of that function.